the jobs are in crisis mode right now
today as companies say no to new hires
they start saying yes to job Cuts you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you in today's video we are
going to talk about what's happening
with the jobs we're going to connect
that in of course with the economy as a
whole I'm going to tell you who's hiring
let me tell you the examples the pay
differences that are happening right now
because when you look at the median
salary okay the median salary at the
last time I checked it was something
around the average in the United States
of
$34,000 nobody can live on
$34,000 but if you were and one of the
engineers at open AI you make around 700
800 and even more per year okay a huge
disparity now keep that in mind we're
going to talk about why look at the
example of the truckers right where
you've got these compan companies that
are saying we need truckers so badly
we're going to give every incentive
possible we're going to give you 150
we're going to give you 200 we're going
to give you more we're going to give you
this and that because we need people and
then what happened uhoh we don't need
you anymore jobs cut these things happen
so watch the industry carefully very
important okay we also have the AI and
robot circumstance which is accelerating
and I'll give you one example of what is
happening already and then we talk about
the companies basically
slashing and they won't hire I'm going
to tell you all of this today and I'll
connect it all in together the rise of
the forever renders this is becoming a
new trend and unless something drastic
changes will likely be permanent
Americans who would traditionally be
homeowners are instead renting they're
sparking new kinds of neighborhoods
changing savings patterns and even
buying different light fixtures all that
in this Wall Street Journal article the
point of it really is that I believe
what's happening is the United States
and the West as a whole they're becoming
part of this renter nation and what does
this mean it's that people they don't
can't afford or they don't want the
responsibility of home ownership we are
seeing these big buildings being set up
co-op housing it's like a dormatory
where yes you've got your own living
quarters but you share some facilities
making it easier look I don't need to
deal with anything somebody cleans up
the kitchen after me it's a good life
that's what they want and I think for
people who do want that that's great but
is this what people want or they simply
can't afford the alternative you see the
problem when you've got to spend a
million dollar when you got to spend $2
million to afford a home it's
unreasonable it's unreasonable for a lot
of people unless you're working as an
engineer at open AI or as a trucker for
one of those companies that hired you
for 200 Grand and you're still employed
maybe just maybe you'll be okay but that
isn't for everybody that's what we know
thinking about quitting your job so are
39% of us employees this is unbelievable
now obviously people want better pay
they want to work from home a lot of
companies today are saying you better
come back to the office right now there
is no alternative but these are people
that are living now two hours away from
work or maybe even further and so
they're saying uhoh uh I thought that
whole work from home thing was permanent
no I'm in big trouble and so these
things are kind of happening and that
sure certainly is playing a role but
others are saying I need more money I
can't afford this I can't afford the
lifestyle I have I can't afford my bills
because uh of the rising costs Wayfair
CEO employees need to work longer hours
now he said some good stuff but um I
know this will definitely trigger some
other people and one of those things was
working long hours being responsive
blending work and life is not anything
to shy away from and so you know the
whole work life balance I often find
that the bosses would say that meaning
when I call you after hours you better
answer your darn phone that's kind of
what it means but in this case here I
think if you're working for a startup
you have to expect this if you are
trying to grow if you're trying to be
part of something great you got to have
that structure you can't be someone out
there with a family that needs you to be
home at 5:00 it's got to be a different
type of environment a different type of
world for these people but that's the
situation when a company gets to
maturity sometimes the whole dynamic
changes that's important I I think
that's really really something to
understand it depends on the company
depends on the circumstances and this is
from our friends at the world economic
forum is AI making you suffer from phobo
F oo here's what can help what is that
well let me show you here it is emerging
Technologies including AI will disrupt
jobs and employees skills in the coming
years around a fifth of workers in the
US say that they fear the AI will make
them obsolete a phenomenon dub phobo and
so this is the kind of situation where I
believe this is fear of obsolescence by
the way you know you you got to
understand this it's you know whether
it's AI robotics so many things what we
have right now is in the middle of a
cycle we see these
circumstances where times change right
and we go through a period jobs are are
slash
but then comes a time in which the
economy grows things are better
companies are saying we need people in
that department let's hire some more
people but if Ai and Robotics automation
are now doing those jobs over that let's
say that two-year period we had those
open AI Engineers creating something oh
yeah we don't need to do that anymore
I've heard many circumstances in
financial companies where they get rid
of entire departments because they say
oh yeah you know that thing the manual
scanning of this and that oh no we don't
do manual scanning anymore all we do is
have an individual that just quality
checks that's it that's all they do oh
and by the way we got rid of that whole
department and we sent off the you know
the lasting parts of it
overseas that's going on now today
already already and you say don't worry
because people are going to retool
people are going to go into other fields
do you think that a person working in a
back office office at a financial
company is suddenly going to be an
engineer for open AI the likelihood is
Slim it's slim and so what do these
people do well you can learn a bit about
machine learning you can learn a bit I
just talked about that in my uh live
class a week or two ago where you could
learn about machine learning for
free okay um but that's a big task
there's no question about that I mean if
you have the due diligence you you you
you can do so it is a big task if you're
a family you know and you got to take
care of your family you don't have the
time for all these things after Tork
surge Federal buildings remain largely
empty could you believe it the amount of
empty I mean this is crazy check this
out it depends on on on the type of
building and so on type of uh you know
look just look Top at at the bottom
Social Security Administration and the
Housing and Urban Development off
offices were both at 7% occupancy the
small business administration was at
9% that's embarrassing in my opinion in
my opinion you let me know you take
those buildings and you simply get rid
of them you do something with them you
you utilize those buildings okay the
your tax dollars shouldn't be going to a
building that's 90% empty I mean that is
just that's terrible you might as well
just have those people working from home
they're probably not many cases not even
doing
much you know whatever this is
interesting Cali Express by flippy our
friends flippy the robot and flippy too
well now they have an entirely automated
restaurant Cali Express the world's
first fully autonomous AI powered
restaurant is set to open in Southern
California this is going on now it's not
going on you know in 10 years from now
it's already happening and when it comes
to fast food if you can go to a place
that's going to serve you the same stuff
and you know somebody didn't step in it
before they gave it to you there was no
extra ingredients in yours and maybe
just maybe it's a little bit cheaper
because they don't have the human
resources you love that would you go
there
what's your thought okay Banks shed
60,000 jobs in one of the worst years
for cuts since the financial crisis so
that's financial industry then we have
this over 100,000 workers were laid off
from tech jobs this year okay so we see
that in Tech we see it in finance other
places as
well and what are people doing you could
like these are big big changes let's
connect them all Illinois sees the 10th
straight year of population loss in 2023
people don't want to live in these
places they're too expensive they're
dangerous and the jobs just aren't there
people want to go where the jobs are
they're easier to come by they can
actually actively live a good life I
talk to people who live
in very expensive places cities working
let's just say you know the median job
median salary and they are constantly
talking about the suffering they
experience that's not a healthy economy
that shows us that we've got a very big
issue because we should have shared
prosperity and that happens when there's
a strong middle class it's not coming
from the top down where the government
will say you know what shared Prosperity
let me you know wave my w magic wand
Harry Potter over here it's not going to
happen that's not the way it works they
have haven't done it look decade after
decade after decade after decade the
situation has gotten worse there's no
question about
that last year at this time 85% of
economists in one pole predicted a
recession this year and that it was an
uh optimistic take compared with the the
100% probability of recession forecast
two months
earlier this is going on they said
recession recession
recession in their terms by the way not
not real terms and yet they're
suggesting there is no recession it's
not going to happen and everything is a
okay now if they claim that there is no
recession that is actually a a little
bit positive I would say in a sense it's
worse in another sense but businesses
may start hiring more people because
they're saying hey no recession oh and
they're telling us inflation's going
down good news right uh but of course it
may give a a um
false representation to people of what's
Happening they might overspend and so on
what I need to tell you is that for a
lot of people they are going to be
sidelined by what happens here because
inflation isn't going to go down at
least in real terms and you need to be
prepared for it all what I can tell you
right now is the group that I have every
single week these are the most informed
people that are getting the latest and
greatest The Cutting Edge information
that in a video like this I I just can't
get into I try to touch on it here or
there but algorithms all that nonsense I
break it down for two hours each session
are you interested on getting access to
me live hit that link in the description
right at the top click you read through
and you see if you're um up to it you
got to be willing to to listen on the
Sunday session which is about building
e-commerce businesses for the most most
part uh you got to be willing to work
but those are the people that are going
to be likely the wealthiest people in
their family the people that are able to
help others the people that probably
will be the ones to hear the knock on
the door when the tough times come
because they know that those people are
in a better circumstance than everyone
else that's the way this works did you
enjoy the video don't forget hit that
thumbs up button I do appreciate it very
much when you do um and U as always hope
to see her here tomorrow take care